.\"
.\"     This is free software and only distributed under the
.\"     terms of the Gnu Public License. Author: Guido Socher
.\"
.TH whichman 1 "April 1998" "Search utilities"  \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
whichman \- show the location of a man page using a fault tolerant approximate matching algorithm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B whichman
[\-#ehIp][\-t#] man\-page\-name 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B whichman 
is a "which" alike search command for man pages. 
.B whichman 
searches the    
.B MANPATH 
environment variable. 
.PP
Unlike "which" this program does not stop on the first match. The name
should probably have been something like whereman as this is not a
"which" at all.  whichman shows all man-pages that match and allows you
to identify the different sections to which the pages belong.
.PP
.B whichman 
can handle international manpage path names for different languages.
Man pages in different languages may be stored in .../man/<country_code>/man[1\-9]/...
.PP
By default, 
.B whichman
does fault tolerant approximate string matching. With a default tolerance level
of: 
(strlen(searchpattern) - number of wildcards)/6 + 1
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-h
Prints a little help/usage information.
.TP
.I \-I
Do case sensitive search (default is case in\-sensitive)
.TP
.I \-e
Use exact matching when searching 
for a given man-page and the wildcards * and ? are disabled.
.TP
.I \-p
print the actual tolerance level in front of the man page name.
.TP
.I \-# or \-t#
Set the fault tolerance level to #.  The fault tolerance level is a
integer # in the range 0-255.  It specifies the maximum number of errors
permitted in finding the approximate match.  A tolerance_level of zero
allows exact matches only but does NOT disable the wildcards * and ?.
.PP
The search key may contain the wildcards * and ? (but see -e option):
.TP 
.BR '*'
any arbitrary number of character
.TP 
.BR '?'
one character
.PP
The last argument to whichman is not parsed for options as the program needs
at least one man-page-name argument. This means that 
.I whichman -x
will not complain about a wrong option but search for the man-page named -x.
.SH EXAMPLE
.I  whichman
.RB print
.PP
This will e.g. find the man-pages:
.br
/usr/man/man1/printf.1.gz
.br
/usr/man/man3/printf.3.gz
.br
/usr/man/man3/rint.3.gz
.SH BUGS
The wildcards 
.BR '?'
and 
.BR '*'
can not be escaped. These characters function always as
wildcards. This is however not a big problem since there is
hardly any man-page that has these characters in its name.
.SH AUTHOR
Guido Socher (guido@linuxfocus.org)
.SH SEE ALSO
ftff(1) man(1)
